Comfort zone expansion is haaaaarrrrrrrrd.  I'm walking around Warsaw, and passed a small bar with 2-4 people dancing, and it looked like fun, and I want to go in there and ask some young lady to dance, and it doesn't feel violating, but I can't think of a way to actually really do it, and the worst that could happen is that the bartender gets angry and a bouncer comes up to me and stares and me intimidatingly and I run out of the bar and have trouble sleeping and have a fear response to bars in the future, or one of the women slaps me, or, I don't know, one of the guys pulls out a knife at me asking his girl to dance, or none of them speak English so my smile falls off my face and I leave embarassedly, and then the bartender tells me I need to order if I come in, and calls the police.  Okay, all of these things are either wildly implausible or not that bad objectively.  So, what can I do?  Walk in, walk up to a young lady, smile warmly, and say, "hello.  I saw some dancing in here before, and it looked like fun; would you like to dance?"?  And if she says no, or indicates she doesn't speak English I can smile, say "have a good night", and leave?  And if she is frowning or unhappy, I can say the same (or say "well, have a good night").  If the bartender intercepts me, I can ask for something nonalcoholic.  And if they've all left, I can walk in, walk down the stairs, smile at the bartender, and then turn around and leave, pretending I've just noticed the time and forgotten something.  And if they are deep in conversation with individual guys there, or if I can't catch their eyes, I can do the plan for if they had left.  Okay, I can do this.

Report:  Success!  I went in, smiled, and then walked out, having noticed both girls seemed to be absorbed in one-on-one conversations, and I was a bit disappointed in myself.  Then I realized I hadn't been mindful of my experience, so I walked in again, set on just standing and smiling and being mindful.  And then one of the young ladies made eye contact, and partially mirrored my facial expressions, and after this two-second long game of eye-contact, I walked up to her, and asked her if she would like to dance.  She said she didn't dance, and this sparked a heated argument, in Polish, between her and the other three people, who claimed she did dance.  Anyway, I did not end up dancing, even though the other two got up to dance for "who let the dogs out", and next time I want to CoZE solo-dancing, but a few minutes after the song ended, I was feeling too awkward to ask the other to dance, given that there was no successful game of eye-contact, and I was still sweating from emotions, so I smiled and walked out.  Now to finish my 1am trip to visit the old city, and then walk for 1-2 hours back to my hotel.


