How to Have Airport Gate Agents Greet You by Name
A story of my last day in Warsaw, Poland

You wake up, and notice within seconds that something is wrong.  It takes
another second for the answer to come back about what's wrong: you're not
sleepy, and you woke up naturally.  You curse softly, and look at your
wrist.  Finding your watch not there, you reach for it on the bedside
table.  12:55, it says.  Your flight _takes off_ at 1:55.  You curse
softly under your breath.  The train comes every half-hour, at 17 after
and 47 after, if you recall correctly.  The train-ride is around 30-40
minutes, according to your memory of google maps.

You have 60 minutes, all of your backpack-full of belongings.  You need
to get back to the US.  Go!

...

...

...

Have you thought about what you would do, in this situation I found
myself in, this morning?

...

...

...

...

You curse again softly.  You realize you should have set your laptop to
make noise at the right time, when your phone failed to ring an alarm you
had forgotten to unset before you went to bed 3 hours prior to your
intended wake-up time.  You set your watch alarm as a contingency,
against the 6 alarms you set on your phone failing, but you know watch
alarms don't wake you up when you're sleeping deeply.  You bolt out of
bed, and think about trying to reschedule your flight.  You rule it out
as too costly.  What do you know?  The hotel will not keep you another
night.  The only place to make airline plans is from the airport.  It's
not quite _impossible_ that you'll make that flight.  There's no reason
to stay at the hotel, it won't help you, and going to the airport quickly
is the least bad thing you can think of to do.  You are momentarily
grateful that you are essentially all packed up, that you took the time
to make it quick and easy to pack in the morning, thinking you'd be
tired.  You break one of your backpack zippers while closing the
backpack, try to fix it twice, break it a bit more, and then just dump
the stuff from that small section into one of your drawstring backs.  You
pack your remaining things in two minutes, grab your stuff, do a quick
check over the room, grab your cellphone and nightmask, and sprint out of
your room.  You realize as the door locks closed that you left your
keycard in the room, and shrug, hoping the hotel desk won't give you
trouble, as you press the elevator button.  You go to check out, wishing
you'd settled your bill the previous night, as the sign in the elevator
suggested.  There are two discrepencies: you ate at least two breakfasts,
the hotel thinks you ate only one, and you thought the accomodation as
prepaid.  You mention both, the deskworker disputes both, you shrug,
figuring the hotel can deal with the former, and you can dispute the
latter with a credit card company if need be.

You notice the taxis outside while waiting for the desk worker to finish,
and sprint outside after thanking the clerk and ensuring that there's
nothing more.  You discovered from the clerk that there are two airports
nearby (luckily you recognize "Chopina" from google maps), and that the
one you want is 20-30 minutes away by taxi. You sprint outside to the
first taxi in line.  You ask the taxi driver to take you to the airport,
and note conversationally that you're in a hurry, as your flight takes
off at 2.  You inform the drive that you're on Lufthansa, and ask how
long it takes to get there.  10-20 minutes is the answer, this time.  You
anxiously check your watch throughout the journey.  You pull up your
mobile boarding pass on your phone, and decide not to read the pleasant
emails you note in your inbox, as you want to stay focused and alert for
any interactions you have in the airport.  You take a few calming
breaths, because you are a bit too tense.  You ask yourself what you can
usefully do right now.  You take out your walet to pay the taxi, and ask
mostly-calmly about the remaining time to the airport, and the time it
takes to get through security.  5, 10 minutes max, the driver says, about
security, and you breathe a sigh of relief.  It's looking possible that
you'll make this flight.  You start composing this email in your head,
then jerk your mind away from that, realizing that composing this email
won't help you yet, and there are other useful plans you could be making.
You pause for a moment, noting with interest that your lizard brain is
already assuming that you'll make the flight, having never had the
experience of a missed flight.  You decide that next time, you should
pack your reliable alarm, even if it is slightly bulky, and keeps time by
the frequency of the current it gets.

You get to the airport at 1:26.   You freeze momentarily when you
discover the taxi doesn't take credit cards, and you spent your last
zlotties the night prior.  You're about to apologize for not having any
cash, when you remember that you have euros.  The driver accepts them,
luckily, and you ask for a receipt, remembering that you forgot to ask
the night before.  You jog into the airport.

You weigh the inconvenience of having only a mobile boarding pass, with
no internet, against the time it takes to get a physical one, and the
time you have left.  You decide to print a physical boarding pass.  The
first terminal you try is misaligned, and you lose a precious minute
filling in your last name.  The confirmation code won't go in at all,
switch terminals.  This one has a working screen, and a minute or two
later, you have your boarding pass.

You get to security at 1:30.  The line is short, but you might not have
the time to wait.  You put a warm smile on your face, and ask each
person, individually, if you could go ahead in line, because your plane
is boarding now.  You stop when you reach the conveyor, figuring the last
three or four people, with their things already on the belt, won't make
much of a difference.  You unpack your things, and gamble on your belt
not setting off the metal detector.  You think the attendant is telling
you to take off your belt, so you start to, and then he indicates he's
actually taking about your watch, in a mix of English and German, so you
take off your watch, and leave your belt on.  Anyway, you seem to recall
it not setting off detectors before, and you don't want to lose 30
seconds it takes to put it back on; it's already 1:36, by the time you
get your things into the x-ray machine.

You walk through the metal detector, assuming the lady who was standing
there, and then walked away, was dithering or something.  Your belt sets
off the metal-detector.  You get patted down, and the agent indicates in
minor annoyance that you should take off your belt.  You do.  He asks
where your bags are, you point under the x-ray tunnel.  He asks, more
annoyed, why you went ahead of the women in front of you.  You stammer
that your flight is boarding in 20 minutes, then apologize, and correct
that your flight is taking off within 20 minutes, slightly more
confidently.  He finishes patting you down, has you turn around, pats you
down some more, and then indicates that you should continue.  You thank
him, and collect your bags.

The time is 1:38, and you figure that you have the time to put your
laptop back in your bag, as it will likely make you a bit quicker and
have an easier time getting to the gate.  You're aware of the seconds
ticking by.  You are aware that you'll be upset if this is how closely
you missed your plane.  You take a deep breath.  You finish packing your
backpack, grab your stuff, and run to your gate, putting your second
backpack strap on as you weave between the people.  You regret not having
the time to refill your water-bottle, which you emptied into a bed of
flowers when you got out of the taxi, so that you wouldn't have to waste
time finding a bathroom.

You arrive at the gate at 1:43, and ask if this is the boarding area for
your gate.  The gate agents ask "Jason Gross?", and you indicate that
they are correct, apologizing with a smile that your alarm didn't go off
this morning.  They wave you through, and unlock the tunnel doors,
indicating that you are just on time.  You jog down the tunnel, stopping
when you make eye contact with the flight attendants, figuring that now
they won't leave without you.  You make it onto the plane, with about 10
minutes to spare before take off.  This is, by far, the closest you've
ever cut it.  You fit your bulky backpack under the seat, sit down with a
smile, and decide that being late and flustered is a good enough
conversation-starter that you can say a couple of sentences to the lady
sitting next to you.  She speaks semi-fluently but not easily, so you
leave it at a few sentences, and settle in to read the emails you were
looking forward to earlier, and to compose this email.
